docs/rotary-encoder/ex-rail-integration.rst, before:

*************************************
Device Driver and EX-RAIL Integration
*************************************

.. sidebar::

  .. contents:: On this page
    :depth: 2
    :local:

Enable the EX-CommandStation device driver
==========================================

To integrate the rotary encoder with your EX-CommandStation, ensure you are running the `Latest EX-CommandStation Unreleased Development Version <https://dcc-ex.com/download/ex-commandstation.html#latest-ex-commandstation-unreleased-development-version>`_ , which includes both the "IO_RotaryEncoder.h" device driver and EX-RAIL commands required.

When release, the device driver will be included in version 5.

As per the following sections, it is possible for the EX-CommandStation device driver to send feedback to the rotary encoder software to confirm when a move has started and completed, as well as receiving a position that some other automation has set a turntable to.

The default I2C address for this device is 0x70, and you will need to enable the device driver via myAutomation.h:

Example:

.. code-block:: cpp
  
  #include "IO_RotaryEncoder.h"

  HAL(RotaryEncoder, 700, 1, 0x70)    // Single Vpin at default address, receives no feedback
  HAL(RotaryEncoder, 710, 2, 0x71)    // Two Vpins at next address, receives feedback from device driver
  HAL(RotaryEncoder, 720, 3, 0x72)    // Three Vpins, receives feedback and position updates from device driver

Refer to :doc:`/rotary-encoder/ex-rail-integration` and the `DCC-EX documentation <https://dcc-ex.com/ex-turntable/test-and-tune.html#controlling-ex-turntable-with-a-rotary-encoder>`_ for further information on how this interacts with an EX-CommandStation.

Receiving feedback from the EX-CommandStation
---------------------------------------------

The device driver included with EX-CommandStation is capable of sending feedback to this rotary encoder software to indicate whether a turntable is moving (1), or if the move has completed (0).

In turntable controller mode, the display will indicate the turntable is moving by blinking the representative turntable on and off, and will stop blinking when it is no longer moving.

This must be matched by defining `FEEDBACK` appropriately in "config.h" as per :ref:`rotary-encoder/overview:general configuration options`.

Enabling feedback in the device driver
--------------------------------------

To enable feedback in the device driver, you simply need to specify to use two Vpins rather than one, and sending a ``SET(vpin)`` (moving started) or ``RESET(vpin)`` (moving complete) via your EX-RAIL automation will tell the device driver moving has started or completed. See :ref:`rotary-encoder/ex-rail-integration:turntable controller example with feedback` for an example of how this can be implemented.

.. code-block:: cpp

  HAL(RotaryEncoder, 700, 1, 0x70)       // Defining 1 Vpin disables feedback

  HAL(RotaryEncoder, 700, 2, 0x70)       // Defining 2 Vpins enables feedback

Receiving a new position from the EX-CommandStation
---------------------------------------------------

The device driver included with EX-CommandStation is also capable of sending the position a turntable has been set to from an EXRAIL automation sequence that was not initiated by this rotary encoder software.

In turntable controller mode, the display will update the turntable position and indicate the turntable is moving by blinking the representative turntable on and off, and will stop blinking when it is no longer moving. Using both the feedback as above in addition to the position update must be used together to accomplish this.

This must be matched by defining `POSITION` appropriately in "config.h" as per :ref:`rotary-encoder/overview:general configuration options`.

Enabling receiving positions in the device driver
-------------------------------------------------

To enable receiving position updates in the device driver, you simply need to specify to use three Vpins rather than one or two, and sending a ``SERVO(vpin, position, profile)`` via your EX-RAIL automation will tell the device driver a new position is being moved to.

This needs to be combined with `SET(vpin)` and `RESET(vpin)` to flag when moves have started and completed also.

See :ref:`rotary-encoder/ex-rail-integration:turntable controller example with feedback and position updates` for an example of how this can be implemented.

.. code-block:: cpp

  HAL(RotaryEncoder, 700, 3, 0x70)       // Defining 3 Vpins enables feedback and position moves

EX-RAIL automation
==================

Two EX-RAIL commands have been added to enable usage:

ONCHANGE() Event Handler
------------------------

An event handler has been added ``ONCHANGE(vpin)`` similar to the turnout and accessory event handlers.

This enables any position change of the rotary encoder to be used to define an activity.

IFRE() Test Statement
--------------------- 

A test statement ``IFRE(vpin, position)`` has been added to check for the specific position selected by the encoder.

Valid positions are from -127 to 127 in control knob mode, or 0 to 255 in turntable controller mode.

Control knob example
--------------------

This is a brief example of how to use the encoder in control knob mode to select some turntable positions, based on the myEX-Turntable.example.h file included with the CommandStation code:

.. code-block:: 

  // EX-Turntable macro and route definitions
  #define EX_TURNTABLE(route_id, reserve_id, vpin, steps, activity, desc) \
    ROUTE(route_id, desc) \
      RESERVE(reserve_id) \
      MOVETT(vpin, steps, activity) \
      WAITFOR(vpin) \
      FREE(reserve_id) \
      DONE

  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute1, Turntable, 600, 114, Turn, "Position 1")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute2, Turntable, 600, 227, Turn, "Position 2")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute3, Turntable, 600, 341, Turn, "Position 3")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute4, Turntable, 600, 2159, Turn, "Position 4")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute5, Turntable, 600, 2273, Turn, "Position 5")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute6, Turntable, 600, 2386, Turn, "Position 6")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute7, Turntable, 600, 0, Home, "Home turntable")

  // Rotary encoder event handler to select positions:
  ONCHANGE(700)
    IFRE(700, 1)
      START(TTRoute1)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 2)
      START(TTRoute2)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 3)
      START(TTRoute3)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, -1)
      START(TTRoute4)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, -2)
      START(TTRoute5)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, -3)
      START(TTRoute6)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 0)
      START(TTRoute7)
    ENDIF
  DONE

  // Pre-defined aliases to ensure unique IDs are used.
  // Turntable reserve ID, valid is 0 - 255
  ALIAS(Turntable, 255)

  // Turntable ROUTE ID reservations, using <? TTRouteX> for uniqueness:
  ALIAS(TTRoute1)
  ALIAS(TTRoute2)
  ALIAS(TTRoute3)
  ALIAS(TTRoute4)
  ALIAS(TTRoute5)
  ALIAS(TTRoute6)
  ALIAS(TTRoute7)

Turntable controller example
----------------------------

This is a brief example of how to use the encoder in turntable controller mode to select some turntable positions, based on the myEX-Turntable.example.h file included with the CommandStation code:

.. code-block:: 

  // EX-Turntable macro and route definitions
  #define EX_TURNTABLE(route_id, reserve_id, vpin, steps, activity, desc) \
    ROUTE(route_id, desc) \
      RESERVE(reserve_id) \
      MOVETT(vpin, steps, activity) \
      WAITFOR(vpin) \
      FREE(reserve_id) \
      DONE

  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute1, Turntable, 600, 114, Turn, "Position 1")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute2, Turntable, 600, 227, Turn, "Position 2")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute3, Turntable, 600, 341, Turn, "Position 3")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute4, Turntable, 600, 2159, Turn, "Position 4")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute5, Turntable, 600, 2273, Turn, "Position 5")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute6, Turntable, 600, 2386, Turn, "Position 6")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute7, Turntable, 600, 0, Home, "Home turntable")

  // Rotary encoder event handler to select positions:
  ONCHANGE(700)
    IFRE(700, 1)
      START(TTRoute1)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 2)
      START(TTRoute2)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 3)
      START(TTRoute3)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 4)
      START(TTRoute4)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 5)
      START(TTRoute5)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 6)
      START(TTRoute6)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 0)
      START(TTRoute7)
    ENDIF
  DONE

  // Pre-defined aliases to ensure unique IDs are used.
  // Turntable reserve ID, valid is 0 - 255
  ALIAS(Turntable, 255)

  // Turntable ROUTE ID reservations, using <? TTRouteX> for uniqueness:
  ALIAS(TTRoute1)
  ALIAS(TTRoute2)
  ALIAS(TTRoute3)
  ALIAS(TTRoute4)
  ALIAS(TTRoute5)
  ALIAS(TTRoute6)
  ALIAS(TTRoute7)

Turntable controller example with feedback
------------------------------------------

This is a brief example of how to use the encoder in turntable controller mode to select some turntable positions, based on the myEX-Turntable.example.h file included with the CommandStation code.

Note the addition of the parameter "feedback_vpin" in the "EX_TURNTABLE" macro defining the second VPin for the rotary encoder, where the ``SET(feedback_vpin)`` sends feedback that the move has started, and the ``RESET(feedback_vpin)`` sends feedback that the move has completed.

.. code-block:: 

  // EX-Turntable macro and route definitions
  #define EX_TURNTABLE(route_id, reserve_id, vpin, steps, activity, desc, feedback_vpin) \
    ROUTE(route_id, desc) \
      RESERVE(reserve_id) \
      MOVETT(vpin, steps, activity) \
      SET(feedback_vpin) \
      WAITFOR(vpin) \
      RESET(feedback_vpin) \
      FREE(reserve_id) \
      DONE

  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute1, Turntable, 600, 114, Turn, "Position 1", 701)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute2, Turntable, 600, 227, Turn, "Position 2", 701)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute3, Turntable, 600, 341, Turn, "Position 3", 701)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute4, Turntable, 600, 2159, Turn, "Position 4", 701)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute5, Turntable, 600, 2273, Turn, "Position 5", 701)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute6, Turntable, 600, 2386, Turn, "Position 6", 701)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute7, Turntable, 600, 0, Home, "Home turntable", 701)

  // Rotary encoder event handler to select positions:
  ONCHANGE(700)
    IFRE(700, 1)
      START(TTRoute1)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 2)
      START(TTRoute2)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 3)
      START(TTRoute3)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 4)
      START(TTRoute4)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 5)
      START(TTRoute5)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 6)
      START(TTRoute6)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 0)
      START(TTRoute7)
    ENDIF
  DONE

  // Pre-defined aliases to ensure unique IDs are used.
  // Turntable reserve ID, valid is 0 - 255
  ALIAS(Turntable, 255)

  // Turntable ROUTE ID reservations, using <? TTRouteX> for uniqueness:
  ALIAS(TTRoute1)
  ALIAS(TTRoute2)
  ALIAS(TTRoute3)
  ALIAS(TTRoute4)
  ALIAS(TTRoute5)
  ALIAS(TTRoute6)
  ALIAS(TTRoute7)

Turntable controller example with feedback and position updates
---------------------------------------------------------------

This is a brief example of how to use the encoder in turntable controller mode to select some turntable positions, based on the myEX-Turntable.example.h file included with the CommandStation code.

Note the addition of the parameter "feedback_vpin" in the "EX_TURNTABLE" macro defining the second VPin for the rotary encoder, where the ``SET(feedback_vpin)`` sends feedback that the move has started, and the ``RESET(feedback_vpin)`` sends feedback that the move has completed.

.. code-block:: 

  // EX-Turntable macro and route definitions
  #define EX_TURNTABLE(route_id, reserve_id, vpin, steps, activity, desc, feedback_vpin) \
    ROUTE(route_id, desc) \
      RESERVE(reserve_id) \
      MOVETT(vpin, steps, activity) \
      SET(feedback_vpin) \
      WAITFOR(vpin) \
      RESET(feedback_vpin) \
      FREE(reserve_id) \
      DONE

  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute1, Turntable, 600, 114, Turn, "Position 1", 701)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute2, Turntable, 600, 227, Turn, "Position 2", 701)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute3, Turntable, 600, 341, Turn, "Position 3", 701)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute4, Turntable, 600, 2159, Turn, "Position 4", 701)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute5, Turntable, 600, 2273, Turn, "Position 5", 701)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute6, Turntable, 600, 2386, Turn, "Position 6", 701)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute7, Turntable, 600, 0, Home, "Home turntable", 701)

  // Rotary encoder event handler to select positions:
  ONCHANGE(700)
    IFRE(700, 1)
      START(TTRoute1)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 2)
      START(TTRoute2)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 3)
      START(TTRoute3)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 4)
      START(TTRoute4)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 5)
      START(TTRoute5)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 6)
      START(TTRoute6)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 0)
      START(TTRoute7)
    ENDIF
  DONE

  // Pre-defined aliases to ensure unique IDs are used.
  // Turntable reserve ID, valid is 0 - 255
  ALIAS(Turntable, 255)

  // Turntable ROUTE ID reservations, using <? TTRouteX> for uniqueness:
  ALIAS(TTRoute1)
  ALIAS(TTRoute2)
  ALIAS(TTRoute3)
  ALIAS(TTRoute4)
  ALIAS(TTRoute5)
  ALIAS(TTRoute6)
  ALIAS(TTRoute7)

Commit message:

Fix rotary encoder position example

docs/rotary-encoder/ex-rail-integration.rst, after:

*************************************
Device Driver and EX-RAIL Integration
*************************************

.. sidebar::

  .. contents:: On this page
    :depth: 2
    :local:

Enable the EX-CommandStation device driver
==========================================

To integrate the rotary encoder with your EX-CommandStation, ensure you are running the `Latest EX-CommandStation Unreleased Development Version <https://dcc-ex.com/download/ex-commandstation.html#latest-ex-commandstation-unreleased-development-version>`_ , which includes both the "IO_RotaryEncoder.h" device driver and EX-RAIL commands required.

When release, the device driver will be included in version 5.

As per the following sections, it is possible for the EX-CommandStation device driver to send feedback to the rotary encoder software to confirm when a move has started and completed, as well as receiving a position that some other automation has set a turntable to.

The default I2C address for this device is 0x70, and you will need to enable the device driver via myAutomation.h:

Example:

.. code-block:: cpp
  
  #include "IO_RotaryEncoder.h"

  HAL(RotaryEncoder, 700, 1, 0x70)    // Single Vpin at default address, receives no feedback
  HAL(RotaryEncoder, 710, 2, 0x71)    // Two Vpins at next address, receives feedback from device driver
  HAL(RotaryEncoder, 720, 3, 0x72)    // Three Vpins, receives feedback and position updates from device driver

Refer to :doc:`/rotary-encoder/ex-rail-integration` and the `DCC-EX documentation <https://dcc-ex.com/ex-turntable/test-and-tune.html#controlling-ex-turntable-with-a-rotary-encoder>`_ for further information on how this interacts with an EX-CommandStation.

Receiving feedback from the EX-CommandStation
---------------------------------------------

The device driver included with EX-CommandStation is capable of sending feedback to this rotary encoder software to indicate whether a turntable is moving (1), or if the move has completed (0).

In turntable controller mode, the display will indicate the turntable is moving by blinking the representative turntable on and off, and will stop blinking when it is no longer moving.

This must be matched by defining `FEEDBACK` appropriately in "config.h" as per :ref:`rotary-encoder/overview:general configuration options`.

Enabling feedback in the device driver
--------------------------------------

To enable feedback in the device driver, you simply need to specify to use two Vpins rather than one, and sending a ``SET(vpin)`` (moving started) or ``RESET(vpin)`` (moving complete) via your EX-RAIL automation will tell the device driver moving has started or completed. See :ref:`rotary-encoder/ex-rail-integration:turntable controller example with feedback` for an example of how this can be implemented.

.. code-block:: cpp

  HAL(RotaryEncoder, 700, 1, 0x70)       // Defining 1 Vpin disables feedback

  HAL(RotaryEncoder, 700, 2, 0x70)       // Defining 2 Vpins enables feedback

Receiving a new position from the EX-CommandStation
---------------------------------------------------

The device driver included with EX-CommandStation is also capable of sending the position a turntable has been set to from an EXRAIL automation sequence that was not initiated by this rotary encoder software.

In turntable controller mode, the display will update the turntable position and indicate the turntable is moving by blinking the representative turntable on and off, and will stop blinking when it is no longer moving. Using both the feedback as above in addition to the position update must be used together to accomplish this.

This must be matched by defining `POSITION` appropriately in "config.h" as per :ref:`rotary-encoder/overview:general configuration options`.

Enabling receiving positions in the device driver
-------------------------------------------------

To enable receiving position updates in the device driver, you simply need to specify to use three Vpins rather than one or two, and sending a ``SERVO(vpin, position, profile)`` via your EX-RAIL automation will tell the device driver a new position is being moved to.

This needs to be combined with `SET(vpin)` and `RESET(vpin)` to flag when moves have started and completed also.

See :ref:`rotary-encoder/ex-rail-integration:turntable controller example with feedback and position updates` for an example of how this can be implemented.

.. code-block:: cpp

  HAL(RotaryEncoder, 700, 3, 0x70)       // Defining 3 Vpins enables feedback and position moves

EX-RAIL automation
==================

Two EX-RAIL commands have been added to enable usage:

ONCHANGE() Event Handler
------------------------

An event handler has been added ``ONCHANGE(vpin)`` similar to the turnout and accessory event handlers.

This enables any position change of the rotary encoder to be used to define an activity.

IFRE() Test Statement
--------------------- 

A test statement ``IFRE(vpin, position)`` has been added to check for the specific position selected by the encoder.

Valid positions are from -127 to 127 in control knob mode, or 0 to 255 in turntable controller mode.

Control knob example
--------------------

This is a brief example of how to use the encoder in control knob mode to select some turntable positions, based on the myEX-Turntable.example.h file included with the CommandStation code:

.. code-block:: 

  // EX-Turntable macro and route definitions
  #define EX_TURNTABLE(route_id, reserve_id, vpin, steps, activity, desc) \
    ROUTE(route_id, desc) \
      RESERVE(reserve_id) \
      MOVETT(vpin, steps, activity) \
      WAITFOR(vpin) \
      FREE(reserve_id) \
      DONE

  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute1, Turntable, 600, 114, Turn, "Position 1")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute2, Turntable, 600, 227, Turn, "Position 2")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute3, Turntable, 600, 341, Turn, "Position 3")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute4, Turntable, 600, 2159, Turn, "Position 4")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute5, Turntable, 600, 2273, Turn, "Position 5")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute6, Turntable, 600, 2386, Turn, "Position 6")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute7, Turntable, 600, 0, Home, "Home turntable")

  // Rotary encoder event handler to select positions:
  ONCHANGE(700)
    IFRE(700, 1)
      START(TTRoute1)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 2)
      START(TTRoute2)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 3)
      START(TTRoute3)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, -1)
      START(TTRoute4)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, -2)
      START(TTRoute5)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, -3)
      START(TTRoute6)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 0)
      START(TTRoute7)
    ENDIF
  DONE

  // Pre-defined aliases to ensure unique IDs are used.
  // Turntable reserve ID, valid is 0 - 255
  ALIAS(Turntable, 255)

  // Turntable ROUTE ID reservations, using <? TTRouteX> for uniqueness:
  ALIAS(TTRoute1)
  ALIAS(TTRoute2)
  ALIAS(TTRoute3)
  ALIAS(TTRoute4)
  ALIAS(TTRoute5)
  ALIAS(TTRoute6)
  ALIAS(TTRoute7)

Turntable controller example
----------------------------

This is a brief example of how to use the encoder in turntable controller mode to select some turntable positions, based on the myEX-Turntable.example.h file included with the CommandStation code:

.. code-block:: 

  // EX-Turntable macro and route definitions
  #define EX_TURNTABLE(route_id, reserve_id, vpin, steps, activity, desc) \
    ROUTE(route_id, desc) \
      RESERVE(reserve_id) \
      MOVETT(vpin, steps, activity) \
      WAITFOR(vpin) \
      FREE(reserve_id) \
      DONE

  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute1, Turntable, 600, 114, Turn, "Position 1")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute2, Turntable, 600, 227, Turn, "Position 2")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute3, Turntable, 600, 341, Turn, "Position 3")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute4, Turntable, 600, 2159, Turn, "Position 4")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute5, Turntable, 600, 2273, Turn, "Position 5")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute6, Turntable, 600, 2386, Turn, "Position 6")
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute7, Turntable, 600, 0, Home, "Home turntable")

  // Rotary encoder event handler to select positions:
  ONCHANGE(700)
    IFRE(700, 1)
      START(TTRoute1)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 2)
      START(TTRoute2)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 3)
      START(TTRoute3)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 4)
      START(TTRoute4)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 5)
      START(TTRoute5)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 6)
      START(TTRoute6)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 0)
      START(TTRoute7)
    ENDIF
  DONE

  // Pre-defined aliases to ensure unique IDs are used.
  // Turntable reserve ID, valid is 0 - 255
  ALIAS(Turntable, 255)

  // Turntable ROUTE ID reservations, using <? TTRouteX> for uniqueness:
  ALIAS(TTRoute1)
  ALIAS(TTRoute2)
  ALIAS(TTRoute3)
  ALIAS(TTRoute4)
  ALIAS(TTRoute5)
  ALIAS(TTRoute6)
  ALIAS(TTRoute7)

Turntable controller example with feedback
------------------------------------------

This is a brief example of how to use the encoder in turntable controller mode to select some turntable positions, based on the myEX-Turntable.example.h file included with the CommandStation code.

Note the addition of the parameter "feedback_vpin" in the "EX_TURNTABLE" macro defining the second VPin for the rotary encoder, where the ``SET(feedback_vpin)`` sends feedback that the move has started, and the ``RESET(feedback_vpin)`` sends feedback that the move has completed.

.. code-block:: 

  // EX-Turntable macro and route definitions
  #define EX_TURNTABLE(route_id, reserve_id, vpin, steps, activity, desc, feedback_vpin) \
    ROUTE(route_id, desc) \
      RESERVE(reserve_id) \
      MOVETT(vpin, steps, activity) \
      SET(feedback_vpin) \
      WAITFOR(vpin) \
      RESET(feedback_vpin) \
      FREE(reserve_id) \
      DONE

  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute1, Turntable, 600, 114, Turn, "Position 1", 701)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute2, Turntable, 600, 227, Turn, "Position 2", 701)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute3, Turntable, 600, 341, Turn, "Position 3", 701)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute4, Turntable, 600, 2159, Turn, "Position 4", 701)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute5, Turntable, 600, 2273, Turn, "Position 5", 701)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute6, Turntable, 600, 2386, Turn, "Position 6", 701)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute7, Turntable, 600, 0, Home, "Home turntable", 701)

  // Rotary encoder event handler to select positions:
  ONCHANGE(700)
    IFRE(700, 1)
      START(TTRoute1)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 2)
      START(TTRoute2)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 3)
      START(TTRoute3)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 4)
      START(TTRoute4)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 5)
      START(TTRoute5)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 6)
      START(TTRoute6)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 0)
      START(TTRoute7)
    ENDIF
  DONE

  // Pre-defined aliases to ensure unique IDs are used.
  // Turntable reserve ID, valid is 0 - 255
  ALIAS(Turntable, 255)

  // Turntable ROUTE ID reservations, using <? TTRouteX> for uniqueness:
  ALIAS(TTRoute1)
  ALIAS(TTRoute2)
  ALIAS(TTRoute3)
  ALIAS(TTRoute4)
  ALIAS(TTRoute5)
  ALIAS(TTRoute6)
  ALIAS(TTRoute7)

Turntable controller example with feedback and position updates
---------------------------------------------------------------

This is a brief example of how to use the encoder in turntable controller mode to select some turntable positions, based on the myEX-Turntable.example.h file included with the CommandStation code.

Note the change from the "feedback_vpin" variable to the "encoder_vpin" variable compared with the feedback example above, and the addition of the "position" variable:

- Provide the rotary encoder's Vpin once
- The feedback Vpin is calculated in ``SET(1+encoder_vpin)`` and ``RESET(1+encoder_vpin)``
- The postion update Vpin is calculated in ``SERVO(2+encoder_vpin, position, Instant)``
- The position being moved to is also sent in this line
- As we are using the EXRAIL ``SERVO()`` command, we must send a profile value, but which one you use is irrelevant as it has no effect

Note the addition of the parameter "encoder_vpin" in the "EX_TURNTABLE" macro defining the Vpin for the rotary encoder, where the ``SET(feedback_vpin)`` sends feedback that the move has started, and the ``RESET(feedback_vpin)`` sends feedback that the move has completed.

.. code-block:: 

  // EX-Turntable macro and route definitions
  #define EX_TURNTABLE(route_id, reserve_id, vpin, steps, activity, desc, encoder_vpin, position) \
    ROUTE(route_id, desc) \
      RESERVE(reserve_id) \
      SET(1+encoder_vpin) \
      SERVO(2+encoder_vpin, position, Instant) \
      MOVETT(vpin, steps, activity) \
      WAITFOR(vpin) \
      RESET(1+encoder_vpin) \
      FREE(reserve_id) \
      DONE

  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute1, Turntable, 600, 114, Turn, "Position 1", 700, 1)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute2, Turntable, 600, 227, Turn, "Position 2", 700, 2)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute3, Turntable, 600, 341, Turn, "Position 3", 700, 3)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute4, Turntable, 600, 2159, Turn, "Position 4", 700, 4)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute5, Turntable, 600, 2273, Turn, "Position 5", 700, 5)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute6, Turntable, 600, 2386, Turn, "Position 6", 700, 6)
  EX_TURNTABLE(TTRoute7, Turntable, 600, 0, Home, "Home turntable", 700, 0)

  // Rotary encoder event handler to select positions:
  ONCHANGE(700)
    IFRE(700, 1)
      START(TTRoute1)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 2)
      START(TTRoute2)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 3)
      START(TTRoute3)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 4)
      START(TTRoute4)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 5)
      START(TTRoute5)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 6)
      START(TTRoute6)
    ENDIF
    IFRE(700, 0)
      START(TTRoute7)
    ENDIF
  DONE

  // Pre-defined aliases to ensure unique IDs are used.
  // Turntable reserve ID, valid is 0 - 255
  ALIAS(Turntable, 255)

  // Turntable ROUTE ID reservations, using <? TTRouteX> for uniqueness:
  ALIAS(TTRoute1)
  ALIAS(TTRoute2)
  ALIAS(TTRoute3)
  ALIAS(TTRoute4)
  ALIAS(TTRoute5)
  ALIAS(TTRoute6)
  ALIAS(TTRoute7)
